So let's add authentication now in our application.
Thus far in our off part of the app we got our off page HD email file where we do have our off form
and in on submit we are currently validating that form and thereafter we will do nothing and that of
course has to change.
We don't want to do nothing here.
We instead want to make sure that we try to authenticate the user instead currently what we're doing
is we're all triggering on log in here when we click that button.
Now that will change and we'll now rewrite this to use our on submit handler here where we check whether
we're logging in or not to determine what we want to do.
Do we want to trigger log in here or do we want to trigger some sign up functionality.
Either way we'll need to prepare our backend and for that I'll go to Firebase and there you have that
authentication part and then there you can enable off indications so far based takes care about the
heavy lifting happening on the server for an ad you just click on setup sign and method here and we'll
go with email password here which you enable by clicking that switch.
And now you can send requests to certain and points provided by firebase to either create a new user
or if you have a user already to sign that user in to find these and points you can simply google for
far best off REST API and you should find that firebase off REST API documentation and there you find
different actions you can do with that off indication API.
And for us to sign up with e-mail password and sign in with e-mail password parts here are important.
There you'll find these you are all you need to send the request to you find the data you need to encode
in that request body because it will be a POST request as you can see and you'll see which kind of data
you will get back by the server and dare you'll learn that for example when signing in what you get
back is also so-called I.D. token which is that token I managed on the slides.
Now since we enabled firebase off indication in the firebase web console here we can already get started
with signing up because that allows us to create new users which you of course need to do before we
can sign them in.
So for that we'll need that you are L here but of course I also want to write some code here in our
front.
And for that I'll go to my off service and in there I now need a new method which we haven't created
thus far which I'll name sign up.
You could of course also name it create user or whatever you want.
Now here I expect to get my email which is a string and my password which is a string because these
are the two pieces of information that I need to create a user with that firebase rest api.
It takes an e-mail and a password that return secure token thing here is a parameter we have to pass
but it should always be true.
As you can see here.
So with that we can now send an H to the p request and of course we do that by injecting our HBP client
so I'll name that to be it'll be of type h to be client and it's imported from ET angular slash common
slash H to repeat with that injected and sign up we can use it and there we can now reach out to this
HBP and then send up host request as you can see in the docs it has to be a post request to you that
you are L here.
So let's add a string and I'll use back tricks here because we have one dynamic segment and that is
our API key.
Now that API key is our firebase API key and you can find that in your web project in off indications.
So in the firebase console under authentication by clicking on the web setup up there and there you
will find that API key which you can just copy.
You can ignore the rest so after copying that if I go back to my code I can insert it here but we'll
need it in on another place too.
And therefore I'll do the same as I did with the Google Maps API key.
I'll go to that environments file here in the environments folder and I'll add my firebase API key which
is that string I just copied from there.
I'll add that same key to the prod file here so that I use the same firebase key for both development
and production and then back in you off service I'll inject something dynamic here into that string
and that will be my environment file of course which is imported from that environments folder here
and there I'm not importing the broad file but the normal file which by the way will be swapped automatically
when you build this for production with the environment file imported down there.
I don't use my full environment file but that far eBay's API key property and with that we have to you
are Al for signing up but of course we also need to attach some data and that is the second part and
that should be a javascript object which has these three key value pairs you find here email password
and return secure token which is always true now of course our e-mail is the e-mail we're getting as
an argument and we know that this is a valid e-mail because we're validating it in our off page already.
I always get my password and I pass in the password which I get as an argument and that return secure
token thing.
As mentioned in the docs is always true and now we're preparing a request that should create a new user.
Now as always we need to subscribe so that this request really gets sent.
And for that so that we can all show and I's spinner.
I will return this observable here to my off page or to wherever I call sign up and that will be it
for now.
So let me go back to the off page and there I would now want to use my all service which I am already
injecting and I want to use it here in on submit in the ads block.
So if I'm not logging in then I want to call this off service sign up and forward e-mail and password
which I am extracting here.
And please note I am validating the form before I extract that anti validators we added can be seen
in our template because we're using the template driven approach we're requiring a password which has
at least six characters which by the way is indeed a default requirement by Firebase and for the email
it should be required and a valid email so back in the off page here where I called sign up I forwarded
email and password which we extract up there let me remove that console log statement now this returns
and observable so we need to subscribe here and there will get some response data.
And to be precise that response data is no mystery.
It will be data that is described here.
So what I can do here already is we can add a nice little interface in the off service to get better
auto completion so I'll add my interface off response data here you can name is however you want.
And there I just describe how the data we get back will look like so that we get better or completion
and there I'll just basically fill out what I find here that I get a kind which will be of type String
and I token field which is that token I showed on the slide which will all the be a string and email
which will be a string I refresh token which will not use here but which would allow us to refresh that
token that I.D. token that expires after some time by default.
One hour here on firebase so we get that refreshed token we get a local idea which is just a user I.D.
that was created by firebase because firebase automatically assigns a unique I.D. to every user we create
we have that expires Enfield which is how long that I.D. token will be valid and we have our registered
field which is actually not returned here for signing up but later for signing in this field which basically
tells us whether the email already was verified which by default it will be here automatically and that
will be a boolean.
And since we don't get this for signing up I'll add a question mark after that name to indicate that
this is an optional field nodded off response data will be returned here by this post request and therefore
we can add these angled brackets after post since it's a generic method and add in our off response
data.
So the typescript knows that we'll get back data off this format and that could help us here in the
off page where we get a response data we know which format this has now though here I don't even need
that data there for now I'll just lock dead response data and do nothing else with it.
Now to make sure that we start on that log in page I'll set something special in the off service I'll
set is authenticate to false here and I'll actually also set the user I.D. to null here so that we start
on the log in page on the sign up page and we're not starting on cyber page.
So here I am now.
And now let's try filling this out with some valid data and switch to sign up and press log in and that
button should basically also say sign up now that I look at it.
But what I see here looks pretty good.
This looks like a valid response.
We see all these fields we all saw on the official docs we see that user I.D. It was created.
And if you go to your firebase web console under authentication to the users tab and you refresh that
tab you should see your user here.
Side note if you tried to create that same user again you get back in error of course and that error
actually has a description with a message of email exists.
So you even get that.
Now let's build up on that.